% Hunchkin
% A recommendation platform
% 

 {.unnumbered}

As with supermarket aisles that have give you a choice of different
brands and flavors of chips, online retailers have flooded you with a
wide choice of electronics, clothes, hotels etc. This tyranny of choice
makes it difficult to find something that fits your needs and retailers,
cognizant of this problem have approached it in many ways

Vendors like Amazon, Netflix and other retailers often use a technique
called Collaborative Filtering which relies upon previous purchase
history to recommend future purchases to their clients. While this
method may provide greater accuracy with longer client history and
frequently purchased products, when it comes to newer clients or
products with less purchase history to rely upon, recommendations lose
accuracy. Such is the case with high value items such as Jewelry and
Electronics, and infrequent expenditures such as on leisure travel.

Decision making for high value items or experiences is usually
accomplished by combing through multiple information sources. Travel
websites or online electric retailers may provide you the ability to
sort by price, user reviews and possibly a few other atttributes and
even offer you side-by-side comparisons along tens of features. But they
rarely take into account your personal likings in the same way that
Amazon and Netflix have tried to approach their recommendations.
Recommendation systems can take a content-based filtering approach - the
items characteristics are distilled down to a discrete set of features
and attributes. Hunchkin does exactly that by modeling the domain for a
product into a hierarchically organized set of discrete attributes and
using information retrieval techniques to populate these attributes from
the various data sources that the user typically uses. However, as
noted, this hardly takes into consideration the particular buyer.
Hunchkin uniquely combines the customer’s "prior" beliefs - e.g. another
product that she liked in the past - to narrow down to the attributes
that are meaningful to this particular customer and come up with a set
of recommendations. The elicitation of "priors" informs the entire
short-listing and information display process.

![image](hk-concept.png) A product "genome" represents the discrete
attributes of the product. Distance functions at an aggregate level
("chromosome") are used to arrive at a vector similarity of the product
with respect to the "priors".

There is an overwhelming amount of user feedback on products in blogs,
specialized review sites (Trip Advisor, Yelp, for instance) and merchant
websites. Reading hundreds of reviews and getting an overall picture is
no longer easy. The problem is compounded by the ever-increasing review
mills which generate a lot of "paid for" reviews on review sites.
Hunchkin cuts through this problem by first, narrowing down the choices
to a very small set that is customized for the buyer, as described
before and then enabling the buyer to seek direct and pointed feedback
about these products from her friends on her social networks. She is
assured of reviews and feedback that she can trust more rather than an
anonymous review, possibly written by someone who has been paid by the
product manufacturer.

Hunchkin Hotels {.unnumbered}
===============

Leisure travelers spend countless hours researching hotel features and
reviews going back and forth between sites like Expedia, Kayak and
Tripadvisor. When you travel alone for business, the decision variables
are simple - location, wifi, dining etc. but family vacations can easily
get complicated to research - activities for you and your partner, stuff
for kids to do. Sometimes you can just go with a chain that you know but
in many parts of the world, you really don’t have that many chain
hotels. The decision about which vacation hotel you pick is an important
one because it can make or break a vacation. But it is not easy
researching out all the information that you need to make this decision.
It is further complicated by the huge volumes of reviews for popular
hotels and also the increasing questionable quality of these hotels

The product does the following:

-   Asks you about a hotel that you liked in the past (could be from any
    location) during your hotel search along with dates of travel and
    destination

-   Gives you 5 recommendations which are similar to the hotel in
    features, amenities, dining, location etc.

-   Provides you with the ability to make detailed comparisons between
    these 5 hotels

-   You can ask your friends on Facebook or Google+ about opinions and
    recommendations from these 5 hotels

 {.unnumbered}

Think of it as a Pandora for hotels. There is a genome that represents
various aspects of a hotel - its features, the location, the services it
provides, the dining and several others and this information is
collected from various sources. There is a unique way of finding a
"genome distance" between hotels and it finds hotels with the smallest
distance (most similar to) from the hotel you say you liked.

 {.unnumbered}

Hunchkin will initially rely primarily on affiliations with Online
Travel Agencies (Expedia, Orbitz, Travelocity etc.) for referred sales
commissions. Eventually as it establishes itself as a key Hotel search
platform, advertising revenues will be added.

 {.unnumbered}

Our competition will mainly be existing meta-search engines such as
Kayak, Hipmunk etc. However, none of them have the recommendation
capabilities that are in Hunchkin Hotels.
